Versions
========
v0.1.0	- played itself in text mode, no blanks
v0.1.1  - blank tiles introduced, score fully implemented
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.2    - accepted user moves, no blanks
v0.2.1  - accepted user moves, with blanks
v0.2.2  - user score implemented
v0.2.3  - sundry bugs fixed
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.3    - graphics at last!
v0.3.1  - blocking squares (@) added to config file
v0.3.2	- user skip move and discard tiles added

v0.3.3	- added beeps and slower tile placement for computer
	  fixed bugs:
		* if computer played last move in game, this move
			wasn't shown
		* if computer passed, it threw in all its tiles and
			didn't draw any out
		* `shadows' on tiles were drawn when they shouldn't
			be, overwriting parts of existing tiles
	Added -D command line option to view computers tiles
v0.3.3a - Added a random `replace move' option to computer move, so 
	that if a move with the same max score is found it might be used
	instead.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.4 - Added a word length weighting to the move algorithm. The weighting
	can be set in the configuration file. Also settable in this file
	are the letters used to represent single/double word/letter squares.
	This is useful in particular on monochrome or grey-scale screens.
	The program now cleans up on exit, including on Ctrl-Break,
	and prints the final score.
	Stalemate situations are now recognised.

v0.4.1 - Fixed up black squares
	Gave board a 3-d shadow
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.5 - Combined strategy.exe and ww.exe. Added a whole lot of command
	line options to control strategy testing (-s, -S and -Q).
	Added a -c command line option to distinguish colours
	Added -H (help) command line option
	Added level control in the form of score limits, search
	constraints <MIN> and <CNT>, and letter weights for each
	letter type.
	Fixed bug reported by Jeremy, where one could play a word
	in front of another (eg CAN -> WALKCAN) without the whole
	thing being checked. This should only ever have occurred
	with the human player, although I think Jer claimed otherwise.
	Must check with him.
	More intelligent tile discarding algorithm. See ww.cfg letter
	weights for some details.
	Better control over how first move must be played.
	Added ability to override dictionary lookup on user words.
	Added minimum and maximum allowed word lengths.
	Fixed a bug in the 3d effect of tiles in the first row/column.
	Partially implemented loading a game from a cfg file.
	Must just do move loading (and then obviously saving).
	Added penalty score at end for tiles still on rack.
	You can now play additional games without reexiting to
	DOS each time (and the dictionary is only loaded once,
	although the config file is reloaded each time). This may
	have a bug, as in one game I found the computer didn't
	play through the start column, and this had never occurred
	before (it occurred on the third game played without exiting).
	Rescaled tiles in big boards and tested all board sizes from
	7x7 to 21x21.
	Added load and save game, and hint and undo command options.
	Games can be loaded off the command line. If a config file
	is specified on the command line, it must be preceded by a
	-f argument.
	
	All this in one weekend!

v0.5.1 Fixed bugs:
	1) The 3d bug fix in v0.5 introduced a bug in the tile colouring
		option -c where the leftmost letter in the players rack
		was coloured white instead of blue.
	2) The closing message used to print out 
		`Thanks for playing WordsWorth v0.4'
	   It now prints out the current version, whatever that may be.
	3) The random number generator was being reseeded at the start
		of each game with the same number.
	4) The use of pre-placed tiles caused the first move to be
		invalid. There were two approaches to this - including
		cross checks in leftPart if the move was the first
		move (very messy); or treating the situation as though
		it was not the first move. The latter solution was
		adopted as I believe it to be both more desireable and
		considerably simpler to fix.

	Some of these bugs are described in more detail in the
	README file. There are still two known bugs that are
	difficult to repeat that must be fixed.

	When you press enter when prompted for a move, you no longer
	get a musical note being printed, and an `Option not available'
	message, but are simply reprompted. Similarly when you are prompted
	for row, column and word.

v0.5.2
	Fixed bugs:

	1) Move undo resulted in the row and column labels disappearing.

	2) The unplayable hint bug described in the v0.5 README has
		been fixed.

	3) Bugs introduced in the rationalisation of code in io2.c
		from v0.5.1 have been fixed.

	Bugs detected:

	1) A game was saved when there were no tiles left in the pool.
		When this game was reloaded, there was 1 tile in the pool,
		although this only disappeared on programs second move.

	Added features:

	1) A -B0 or -B1 command line option lets you specify who
		plays first.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.6
	Added Features:

	1) A REDO option to undo an undo has been added.

	2) You can now override the dictionary on both the main
		word and the cross words.

	3) A new option in the config file lets you control
		the strategy used by the control player (when
		the -s, -S or -Q option is used) and for hints.
		This can be either a score maximiser, or the
		same strategy the program is playing against you.

	4) Another option in the config file lets you control
		whether weight factors other than score are calculated
		for the main move only, or for all the cross words
		as well. Previously cross words were included, which
		is intuitively wrong when you think about it.

	5) The Hint option now shows you the score as well.

	6) The program now shows a message saying how many tiles
		it swapped when it passes.

	7) An adaptive strategy is now supported that attempts
		to provide you with an opponent of similar skill.
		See the config file.

	8) Letters are now more centered on the tiles.

	9) You can now get up to twenty different hints by
		using `H' repeatedly.

	10) Added a dictionary consult option, which generates
		anagrams of the letters you specify, including
		blank tiles and letter sets (such as [AEIOU] for
		any one vowel).

	11) Undo now doesn't clear the whole screen and redraw
		everything. The result is that it is less jerky
		than before. It's still not perfect, but cleaning 
		up tiles with a 3d shadow ain't that easy.

	12) Colours and textures of all objects are now be specified
		in the configuration file. This is to enable Hercules
		support. I now just need to experiment to find a
		decent set of values for the Herc.

	13) You can now get the program to play a different move
		by pressing `N'. Up to twenty different moves can
		be cycled through.

	Bugs Fixed:

	1) ESC is handled more logically - it cancels the current
		action.

	2) A bad bug in the tile draw routine has been fixed. This
		routine used to draw tiles with equal probability
		regardless of how many of each letter there were.
		In other words, the method was:

			Choose a letter from 'A' to 'Z', or '_'
			If there is such a letter in the pool,
				draw it out, else try again

		The new method is: choose a tile number. To illustrate
		this, say there are five tiles left, two 'A's, a 'Z', a
		'Q' and a 'B'. The numbering is:

			0 - A
			1 - A
			2 - B
			3 - Q
			4 - Z

		The program chooses a number from 0 to 4, and draws
		that tile.

	3) Some bugs in Undo, Redo and Load Game have been fixed.
		Also, the move record gets wiped if you play
		undone moves differently, to prevent you from
		then doing a REDO with inconsistent info.
		I think that these all work correctly now, although
		they haven't been exhasutively tested.

v0.6.1 After testing WordsWorth on a Hercules card, the scaling
	of graphics is now done separately for the X and Y axes
	(a Herc is much more `rectangular' than a VGA). This still
	has to be retested on Herc. It has been tested at 21x21,
	15x15 and 7x7 on VGA, and seems to be pretty much as it was.

	Some more constraint checking is done on the configuration
	file. This was necessary as bad values for the starting
	row & column were accepted causing garbage results.
	
v0.6.2 Tile letters are now being scaled differently (the tile
	scores are unchanged), hopefully more logically. This 
	has resulted in a smaller letter in the 15x15 case.
	One aspect of graphics that could still do with a rework
	is the rack drawing section, particularly when -D is used.

v0.6.3
	The dictionary is now encrypted using the name of the
	registered owner as the key.
	The configuration file now is much more free form and
	readable, and every entry has a default and so is optional.
	It can no longer contain a saved game, though.
	The configuration and saved game file formats are now
	documented in appendices in the README file.

v0.6.4
	The letters and colours used for double/triple letter/word
	squares are now fully configurable up to ten levels (effectively
	11 * letter/word score).

	Fixed a bug in the registration info decoding.

	The tile rack(s) display is now truncated at the right hand
	side of the board, regardless of how many tiles are on the
	rack(s), so as not to interfere with the text. Thus the number
	of tiles drawn at a time should be at least one less than the
	width of the board, and, if the program's tiles are also to
	be displayed, the number of tiles should be less than half the
	width of the board.

v0.6.5
	Changed the end game slightly. You can now save, quit
	or replay.
	
	When there are no tiles left in the pool, and you pass
	a move, you are no longer prompted to enter drop
	characters.

	Rationalised a lot of the serialisation of copies, and
	split into restricted unregistered and full registered
	versions. Built automated registered copy builder.

	Added free form option for unanchored play.

	Got rid of the BGI error message that appeared sometimes
	when exiting.

	Added BlankThreshold to configuration.

	Added VideoMode and VideoCard to configuration, and added
	SuperVGA support including autodetect for VESA cards.

	Started adding `blank tile exchange' move type.

	Fixed a bug in the computation of cross checks related to the
	use of black squares.

	Fixed the clearing of edit text in the dictionary consult
	pattern.

	Fixed up the "BGI not initialised" bug once and for all;
	the `Q' move handler was not reinitialising graphics after
	falling through shutdown() without exit()ing. It now returns
	-6 which tells the main program to start a new game.

	When there are no tiles left other than those on the
	racks, the programs moves and hints are computed
	on score rather than weight, to ensure that it 
	finds moves.

	There is a (seemingly very minor and rare) bug in the hints -
	see TODO.

v0.6.6 - broke lots of stuff in adding blank tile exchanging.
	      
	The board drawing is now very different. Before, only 
	the newly played tiles would be drawn after the initial
	drawing, except with undo, in which case everything was
	redrawn. Now there are separate logical and physical board
	images (a la Curses) which are synchronised with each other.
	It is easy to see the resulting undo (even though the whole
	board is still redrawn after an undo; this isn't too noticeable
	the way it is done).

v0.6.7 Caught some potential bugs in the user move section (eg doing
	a N after a game load).

	Got move undo/redo/load/save all working again, including with
	blank tile exchanges.

v0.6.8	Added territorial form of `free form' play. See the FreeForm
	configuration variable, and the end of section 4.8 in the README
	file.

	Added texture and colour tables for the doubel/triple/...
	word and letter score square backgrounds to configuration.

	Completed Xchange move type.

	Fixed or improved several minor things.

	You can now hit a key when tiles are being placed to speed
	this up.

	Undo screen updating considerably improved.

v0.7	Just renamed as a number of changes had been made.

	Fixed a bug in program move validation; the left part was
	only being validated with cross-checks on across moves.

	All calls to closegraph are now followed by textmode(C80);
	Check what this does on hercules.

	A `Loading words...' message is now printed on dictionary load.

	The `first' flag was being cleared before recording the move that
	cleared it.

	Autoplay games can now be interrupted and resumed.

	showCompTiles flag can now be toggled on and off during play
	with `V' key.

	Added negation operator to consult patterns, plus a persistent
	consult pattern buffer. getUserInput now has a 2 level escape -
	first escape clears input, second exits. Also, long input just
	scrolls horizontally.

	Added mandatory operator to consult patterns, and added new
	font characters for double/triple word/letter scores.

	There are occasional bugs in the undo/redo. I think these are
		related to exchange moves. In some situations, I have
		undone few moves, made a new one, and then pressed REDO
		and there have been moves to redo, which should not be
		there. This affects saved games as well. It isn't too
		serious, but must be fixed. So far I have been unable
		to repeat these.

	Test, test, test!

===================== Version 1 shipped ==============================

Version 1.1:
	Allowed config file to be split up and included.
	Added configureable setup program.
	Made the existence of a configuration file mandatory.
	Fixed a coupla baby bugs.

Version 1.1a:
	Fixed a bug in the scoring of human moves.
	Removed a couple of bits of redundant code.
	Shortened some of the delays.
	Added default values to setup.

Version 1.1b
	Removed the -Q arg, improved -S/-s handling
	Fixed a bug in reporting bad cross words
	Cleaned up some of the code
	Linted the program

Version 1.1c
	Cleaned up the return values of the getUserCmd routine,
	and a lot of the handling of the `first' variable. Most
	of this is basically untested as yet!
	Fixed the score bugs, I think.
	Added encrypted key to dictionary for use by Windows
	version.
	Added buildict.exe utility and exclusion dictionary
	WORDS.NO.

	NOTE - there are still some bugs lurking:
		* occasional assertion violation
		* apparently WW can end a game when the human can
			still make words.

Version 1.1d
	Fixed a bug in getTiles that prevented the game from ending
	when a player played their last tile

Version 1.1e (6/1/94)
	Fixed a bug in ww.c/getTiles routine where the array
	of drawn tiles was not being initialised. This affected
	the game recorder and caused saved games saved with empty
	draws (such as a complete game with an exhausted tile
	pool) to be rejected for replay by ww.

	Fixed a bug in the calculation of average score per move.
	Now print out the penalties as well.

	The word marking in dictionary consult will not work
	properly, and there is no solution to this other than
	to take it out. It is only needed for anagrams to prevent
	duplicates, so it is better without than with.

Version 1.1f (20/2/94)
	Fixed bugs in territorial play, and initialised penalties
	to zero. The former caused drawTile to be cleaned up a bit;
	the down side is that the tiles in the intro are 2-d (but 
	this arguably looks better anyway).

Version 1.1g (24/4/94)
	Now show current best move in Watch mode.
	Added ability to prevent use of letter weights in choosing
		word.
	Added penalties for opening double/triple/... word squares.
	Fixed a bug that caused gc3 to bomb out with an assertion
		violation.
	Added -Q option. -S and -Q can now take numeric arguments
		for the number of games.
	Fixed a bug in the nodes macro.

Version 1.1h (26/5/94)
	You can now use `a' or `A' for anagrams in consult. These
	are the same as the xword arguments -a and -A.
        The consult algorithm has been improved. It now doesn't
        produce hundreds of duplicates.
	Fixed bug in replay of blank exchanges.
	Fixed bug in score evaluation when user overrides dictionary.
	Now include XWORD.EXE, which also now does super-fast multi-word
	anagrams.

Version 1.2 (21/6/94)
	(THIS MUST BE THOROUGHLY TESTED STILL!)
	This is a major version freeze as all known bugs have been
	fixed, the consult function enhanced to handle patterns
	of arbitrary length with known endings, Xword has been
	enhanced to include an interactive crossword assistant,
	and the dictionary has been rebuilt with some words added
	and some removed. The dictionary builder has also been
	speeded up to about 60% of its previous execution time.

Version 1.2.1 (15/10/94)
	Basic mouse support added



